So, pear is pear. It's made out of special peri-pears, which is the pear equivalent of
cider apples. So they're not nice tasty ones. You can't make peri out of conference pears.
The taste is totally different to cider. It's a bit of a love-hate. Some people love it,
some people say, no. I think in recent years it's got very confused by words like pear
cider. Pear cider is a totally different product. It is a sort of appley type cider with a bit of
pear essence in generally, which is not the same as peri, which as I say is 100% pure pear juice.
Peri is very special to Monmouthshire. Monmouthshire is known as the Peri county
of the whole of the UK. It's also quite special to sort of areas like Worcestershire, which is where
my husband comes from, which is I think where his original interest in it evolved. We did have a
couple of old pear trees. Sadly the original ones died, but we have taken some grafts and they have
been DNA tested, so we will find out what they are hopefully in the next few months. I don't know why
why do we make so much peri? Because we have access to lots of different pears, I sort of find it more
interesting to make than cider. You tend to make ciders by blending apples before fermentation,
different types of apples to get the balance. With peri you try if you can to make it as a
single variety product and you do get very distinctive flavours from different types of pear.
I just really like that. I find that very interesting to find out how it comes out. It's
sort of become our USP in many ways is peri and I'd like to expand on that.
So one of the most well-known peri pears is the Blatene red. It originates in Gloucestershire,
but it is widely found in Monmouthshire and I guess other parts of Wales as well. Pairs sometimes
have quite a lot of unfermentable sugars in them, natural unfermentable sugars, particularly
sorbitol. The Blatene red has quite a high level of this which means when it's fully fermented it's
still naturally sweet which makes a nice rounded flavour. We also have pears around here known as
Monmouthshire burgundy pears. There is some debate about whether they're different pears to Blatene
red or not. We will find out with the DNA results I hope, but they definitely taste different. I can
say that the peri tastes different, not the pear. The peri is more of a sort of wine class of peri,
slightly drier. Then we have lots of different ones. One of my favourites is the potato pear
which is quite difficult to use and make good peri out of, but if you do make it well the peri
tastes a very citrusy, it's quite an acidic pear, but it tastes of like limes, really limey. It is
quite hard to make but it can be beautiful, so that's one of my favourites as well. Probably the
Blatene red peri which we sell under the name Snowy Owl, that's probably because you tend to
find that the general public like something slightly sweeter. I use a variety of different
pears for the dry ones. We use quite a bit of thorn pear which ferments very quickly usually.
I think because the pear rots from the inside and it'll actually start rotting while it's still on
the tree, which means it's pretty much got going with its fermentation before you've impressed it.
And that makes a very light, easy drinking peri which I sell as a dry or possibly a medium,
depending on the year. The sugar levels, the natural sugar levels in the pears will vary from
year to year, so you can get one product one year that will be really bone dry and the next year it
will be quite a bit sweeter.